JournalXR establishes itself in the school market as a distinctive educational means for students to take full advantage of new technologies and resources in producing work that meets college and future ready standards including, but not limited to Common Core, IB and Competency Based Education. 

High school journalism programs, which are locally run without a common publishing platform, while providing students with writing and publishing opportunities. JournalXR has a greater emphasis on research, going deeper into concepts and relationships through our peer review publication platform, while providing the journal publishing  experience and awareness.

Students conducting their studies, as well as operate peer review journals within a classroom setting, or on a school-, district- or state-wide basis, as well as on an international scale. JournalXR provides students with educational advantages in using integrated and intuitive  software solutions to guide students through ideation, concept development and publication. JournalXR empowers teachers to enable students to strike their own pathways by supporting their research and writing through the individual and collaborative production of knowledge that will be shared with others participating in scholarly publishing processes.

JournalXR  engages students in curating each other’s work through peer review and publication in the journals they run in their schools or districts, enabling students to build a portfolio of published work. The principal means by which knowledge is established in academic settings, JournalXR gives a chance for students to experience, and exercise leadership as part of an editorial team,  reviewers, copy editors and in some instances as editors.

JournalXR simplifies the creation of research reports, historical inquiries, empirical studies, and social and cultural analyses. The student’s work, whether individual or collaborative, builds on the platforms’ conceptual mapping of the current state of knowledge, while representing their own distinctive path through the relationship among concepts and in assembling sources and data.


Having to compete with free, which in the knowledge sector is taking the form for the schools of Wikipedia + Google Search + Google Docs. JournalXR’s answer to how to compete against free is in its integration of sound pedagogical scaffolding into the InventXR/Texture/OJS technical platform to provide students with an opportunity that neither free nor paid can deliver: The chance for students to collaborate locally and internationally on developing a greater research culture in high school.
